Hello everybody and thank you for
interest in our course in Quantum Physics.
In this first introductory video,
I'm going to give you
an overview of the course.
I'll tell about the course logistics,
the grading policy and
we'll also will discuss in more detail
the material that is actually
going to be covered in the course.
But first of all I would like to
introduce again the instructors that is
the Charles Clark and
myself Victor Galitski,
we both are theoretical physicist
working on quantum size at
the Joint Quantum Institute or
just JQI at the University of Maryland.
JQI is a very exciting place where there's
a lot of wonderful signs being done on
a daily basis but within experimental
physics and theoretical physics.
So there are a number of very talented
students working with us, for
example these two guys here and
this, by the way,
is a picture of a new building
coming up where JQI will be located.
Both the University of Maryland and
JQI are situated in the Washington,
DC area in the United States, so this
is the beltway surrounding Washington,
DC, and this is the White House here and
we're about five miles or so
from the White House.
So we at JQI are always looking for
intelligent students
to work with us, students and
post doc's so if you're interested and
would like to know more, please visit
our website here and jqi.umd.edu.
Well you can certainly learn
more about the JQI and
about the science that we do by going to
our website and searching the internet.
We on our side, unfortunately,
know very little about you.
So what we do know is that
there are about 25,000
students signed up for
our course, and that's it.
So there is nothing else we
know about you unfortunately.
So Coursera has your email addresses and
we can use this database to send
you course announcements, but
apart from that, we don't know
anything about your interests,
your expectations for the course,
your future plans, and
it would be very helpful for us to have
a little bit of information about that.
So we'd love to know me and so in this
context, I would like to emphasize,
please complete the survey that you
will find on the class page on Coursera.
It will take you maybe 30 seconds or
a minute of your time to do so, but
it will be very helpful for
us to understand your expectations and
also to gauge the level of the material
that actually will be presented.
So some of the lectures have
already been recorded but.
In the second part of the course,
the second part of the course
hasn't been recorded yet, and so
this information will be really helpful.
So now,
let me talk about the course logistics.
So as you know, this is an 8-week course,
and there will be eight weeks of lectures,
two lectures per week, or
well, 16 lectures total.
I assume you can do the math here.
So each lecture will consist on
the average of four segments,
so 10-20 minutes each and
this will add up to about two
hours of video content a week.
So there will be a one,
two in-video quizzes in each segment,
those are not going to be graded,
so this is sort of to keep you awake
to make sure you are still listening.
And there will be one homework
every week which will be graded and
there will be seven homeworks total.
And then the last week,
we're going to have a final
exam which also will be graded.
So we'll discuss grading
policy a little later.
So one thing I would
like to emphasize here
under this course logistics is that
there will be discussion forums and
you should definitely take advantage
of these discussion forums.
So if you have any questions or comments
or maybe you find a typo in the lecture or
you want to learn something
because some suggestions,
please use the discussion forum.
So first of all, your fellow students may
be able to help you to answer some of your
questions, or actually, we also will
be monitoring the discussion forums,
keeping an eye on good questions and
good students.
And also we'll have a dedicated student on
our side monitoring the activity there.
So use these discussion forums,
it's very important.
So a little more about our lectures.
So just to remind you,
this is a graduate/advanced
undergraduate-level quantum
physics course,
which automatically implies that
there will be a lot of math involved.
So, and also remember that both your
instructors are theoretical physicists.
We actually don't know anything else but
math.
So be prepared to see quite a lot of math.
But on our side,
we also realized that among you,
among the students who are registered for
our class, so
there are different variations in
the level of mathematical preparation.
So we tried to have different levels,
also, in our lectures.
So some videos are going to be
pretty simple with no math involved,
some videos are actually going to
involve pretty complicated stuff, and
we came up with a ranking of our videos by
their level of mathematical complexity.
So you will see maybe one or
two video segments with
three stars which implied that they
do involve very complicated math.
And those will be optional for
everybody, so you don't have wedge them,
it's not going to affect your final grade.
So unless, you're really interested and
you want to go through the details,
you can skip them safely,
it's not going to affect it very much.
But otherwise,
I would encourage you, of course,
to listen to all the material
that we put together.
Now, there'll be quite a few
lectures with two stars,
which will involve standard
quantum mechanics advanced math.
So let's say differential equations
where it transforms delta function.
So these kinds of things are going to
appear pretty often in the course.
And in this case, for non-technical
students, so I assume there are quite
a few of you who are, who don't really
want to go through the calculations.
You're just interested in quantum physics.
You've heard something,
you're interested, you think is fun,
you want to know a little more about it.
So in this case, I would suggest that you
definitely should skip the three stars and
you maybe should listen to the beginning
of the lectures with two stars,
which I normally will try to provide
a summary of the results in the beginning.
So that even if you don't
understand all the calculations,
you can still get the main idea.
So in this case, basically what
I'm saying is that you can listen
just to part of the lectures with
two stars and this would be fine.
Now, there will be lectures with just one
star which will imply that there is some
math involved but it's not really
crucial to understand the main results.
We may watch it and it's not about math.
It's about some other thing.
So, and finally, there will be lectures
with no ranking in some sense, so
those don't really involve heavy math and
anybody can listen to them.
Whether or not you have physics
background or math background,
you still should be able to understand.
Now let me say a few words about the
material you're actually going to learn
in this class.
So this is the syllabus page for
our course on Coursera.
So you can take a look at it.
So it's available already.
So, let me mention first of all
that we did not even try to cover
all conceivable aspects of quantum
physics in this eight week online course.
I don't think it's possible.
So even when we teach our graduate
students here who already had some
exposure to quantum physics,
so it takes about a year for
us to over all aspects of quantum physics.
And then there are some advanced
courses on top of that.
So, it takes some time to learn quantum
mechanics at the professional level.
But I think we have a very good
selection of topics here nevertheless.
So among them I would like to
emphasize this Feynman formulation of
quantum theory that I personally
like very much, I think it's one
of the most elegant theories developed
by Feynman in quantum theory.
And in the fourth week, we're actually
going to get to a rather modern result,
so quantum localization.
So, we're also going to discuss a little
bit theory of superconductivity
which is another fascinating phenomenon
which relies on quantum science.
So, Charles will start his
lectures in the fourth week and
he's going to talk about the very
important problem of hydrogen atom.
He discuss atomic spectra and present
a solution to the Schrodinger equations
in the Coulomb potential,
it's a very important result,
so he'll talk about symmetry and
conservation laws and quantum physics.
So later on, actually,
we'll touch upon modern developments,
more modern developments in the quantum
science like say the quantum
hole effect and very modern
developments of multiple insulators.
Some of you might have heard about that.
So in the end of the course, we're
going to talk about other interesting
phenomena, quantum mechanics,
topological vary phase,
quantum optics and
lasers in the last week.
So the last lecture, we keep it open.
So we don't know yet what's going to
happen in the last lecture,
so it might depend on actually
your interest, your response.
So let's say if you request
something in discussion forums,
we may you see I've to cover in the last
lecture, so we'll see about that.
No, I think it's a very good selection of
topics and you're going to learn, well,
the basics of quantum mechanics and
also some of the advance topics.
So, the last comment here
I'd like to make is that,
when you read in your book on anything,
so, before you get to the action,
it takes some time to
introduce characters.
While sometimes you may
find it a little boring.
Likewise, before we can
get to the actions,
some sense here in quantum mechanics.
It will take me well a few lectures
to introduce the basics to tell,
to remind you or, tell you little more
about the history of quantum mechanics,
how it was actually discovered,
the main equations that
governed quantum behavior and
tell you about the mathematical formulas.
So I would encourage you to keep with me
during this first few weeks before we get
to the interesting stuff which is
going to appear a little later.
Finally, let me talk
about the grading policy.
So I assume that it might
be of interest to many of
you who would like to get
a certificate of accomplishment.
So the grading is going to be
based entirely on your homeworks.
There will be seven homeworks each week.
At the end of the week
there will be homework.
And these seven homeworks are going to
contribute 70% to your course grade.
And finally, in the last week, there will
be a final exam which essentially is
a long homework which will cover all the
topics we will have studied by that time,
and the final exam will constitute
30% of the course grade.
So each assignment will have
a soft due date where you will
get the full credit for
whatever you have done by that time and
a hard due date, after which no
submissions will be accepted and
there will be some penalty
after the soft due date,
5% per day is I think what's
recommended by Coursera.
Now in the end, we are going to issue two
types of certificates, either regular or
with distinction, and the precise title
for those will be determined later, so
it will be curved based on the performance
of other students, but I would estimate
that regular certificate cut off will be
around, let's say, 60% of the grades.
So you will have to provide
60% of correct answers.
And the certificate with distinction
will be at about 90%, so.
But otherwise, I think it will be pretty
democratic sort of grading policy.
And most of you who
make an effort to complete the homeworks
are going to do very well.
Okay?
And after all,
if you don't want to do the homework,
it's fine.
If you just want to listen to some
lectures, of course you should feel free
to do so and we understand of course
that you all have busy schedules and
other things to do so just have fun.
Okay?
And
I'll see you in the first lecture soon.